>> We live in a system that is
inherently abundant and yet,
somehow, we don't believe it.
We've created these
little pockets of scarcity
in our minds, and in
our social structures,
and in our relationships.
And we've bought into it, but
that doesn't mean it's true.
>> I was taught growing up
that in order to be successful
in life, you had to try hard.
You have to be faster,
smarter, better.
>> You had to go to college.
You had to get a degree in
order to succeed in life.
>> Work hard, work
hard, keep working.
>> You do what you're
good at in life,
not necessarily what you like.
But you do what you're good
at and what you can tolerate.
>> Play the game by
the rules and win.
>> I see so many people that
are not enjoying this process.
They're not living their life.
Go to the mall.
Just look in their eyes.
They're not happy.
They're not enjoying
this process.
>> We're in adversity
where we have to hoard.
>> Because you're coming
from that survival brain.
You're coming from a brain
that's saying, it's me or them.
>> I was horrendously
uncomfortable in the system I
was in, but I had no idea
how to get out of it.
>> Vast link between seeing
something's wrong with me
and something's wrong
with this system.
>> If you live your life based
on other people's standards
and other people's judgments,
you're setting yourself up
for failure.
>> And I started searching
for this abundance code.
Even though people said
you can't have it all,
I decided that I wanted
to be the exception.
>> When you live abundantly,
you inspire others to live
abundantly.
There's no higher purpose
you could possibly
have in this world than
inspiring someone else.
And if you can inspire
abundance in someone else,
that has amazing ripples.
>> So if you can shift from
me, me, me, to, how can I help?
You'll find yourself
in a new world.
>> Giving as much as we can,
we'll receive more than we ever
thought humanly possible.
>> Great genius, great
poetry, great music,
great accomplishment in business
and finances all emerged from
that source of the recognition
that we're part of a greater
order in the universe.
>> Abundance is just a
completely different world.
It's simpler, easier.
It's more elegant,
and it's more fun.
>> There's no need to win.
We won already.
This is about us now
going and actually
creating the experience,
which makes life worth living.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now, class, Alexander and
Chloe here are not interested
in today's lesson.
They're more interested in
why chickens cross roads.
Now, class, it's very
important for you
to understand that
you're not here for fun.
You're here to learn.
And if you follow the rules
and learn well at school,
then you'll succeed in life.
Do we know what succeed means?
>> Means win, sir.
>> That's right.
Now, Alex and Chloe are
wasting the opportunity
to learn anything.
And that is why they
will be failures.
Do we know what
failures are, class?
>> Losers.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Why are we so
captivated by abundance?
I think it's because we are
afraid that somehow we're
on our own, that we're going to
have to make do with what we've
got, and that
we're going to have
to struggle through the
journey of life by ourselves.
We're interested in abundance
because we want to know,
are we loved?
That's basically it.
Are we loved?
Does life love us?
Does that which created us,
whatever we want to call it,
does it love us?
Does it care?
>> The problem we have in
society that success is
measured either
by fame or money.
It really is.
Who has the shiniest toys, who
has the most money in the bank
account.
And that, to me, is
just an indicator
of money and financial success.
So success is so much
deeper than that.
>> We have now an entire
generation of victims.
Because our entire
media has used
that as a way to be able to
create desire and demand.
What's your problem?
Here's the problem.
If you're not even sure this
is your problem, believe me,
it's your problem.
This is why this is a problem.
It's like, oh, my gosh,
I need that medicine.
I need that gym equipment.
And so what happens is people
then end up in this fear,
like if I don't have it,
I'm going to remain broken.
Because you've
told me I'm broken.
And I can see why.
So now, I'm broken.
>> We've created a world
that's very fast paced.
And there are very high
expectations of everyone.
And we can't keep up.
People aren't able to keep up.
And so the response to
that is dysfunction.
>> So the current system that's
in place around the world is
about competition, separation.
But it could be
about cooperation,
but we have to elevate the
consciousness of the species.
>> From a very, very early age,
we start to get messages about
everything-- messages about who
we are, messages about life,
messages about love,
messages about happiness,
messages about abundance, and
of course, messages about money.
>> I think this idea
where people need to play
by the rules comes often
out of our childhoods,
where in our family's system
it was the way to behave.
And so we learned how to
behave in that system,
and it actually worked.
And maybe it was the best
choice we could possibly make.
And as we get older,
that way of behaving
doesn't necessarily fit
in the bigger world.
And we have to really
identify that and begin
to drop those things off.
>> And so when we have
formed a concept--
and most of us have formed
a concept of who we are
and what life is about
by the age of 10.
And so we've literally
got this 10-year-old
running our life for us.
>> It's like I
remember my parents.
When I was younger, we'd
go to parties, right?
I'd be five years old,
and we'd play party games.
And you know what it's like.
You'd be there at the game.
And the music starts.
And everyone's dancing.
It's like, how cool is this?
Everyone is dancing.
And so now you're dancing.
Then all of a sudden,
the music stops.
And so jump in the chair.
And everyone gets in the chair.
And then you realize
Johnny didn't get a chair.
And now, it's like, oh.
And Johnny is being sent
off the dance floor,
because there's no chair.
And what happens is you see
them take another chair away.
And you realize there's
not enough chairs.
And so now, you're watching.
And you're actually
getting close to the chair,
just in case it stops.
And no one's even
dancing properly anymore.
And then the music stops
and straightaway we're
just jumping in again.
And now, there's Jane.
And I love Jane.
But I'm going to
push her anyway,
because I need the chair.
And now, I'm in the chair.
And this keeps on going.
And they keep on
taking the chairs away.
And we keep on fighting
over the chair that's left.
And it's a game.
And it's lack.
And it's in the
point where you're
five years old that you're
actually getting taught this.
And we then blame
the education system.
We blame other
things as to why we
feel that lack when, in fact,
it's at the core of our being,
that even when it comes
to actually playing,
our parents are putting us in
these situations where we're
actually getting
ingrained in our mind
that there's a certain way we
need to be to better survive
on this planet.
>> So I was taught growing up
that in order to be successful
in life, you had to try hard.
You had to be faster,
smarter, better, that there
was a lot of scarcity in the
world, a lot of limitation,
a lot of suffering, that
you could be kicked out
of your house, not
have enough to eat,
lose everything if you
weren't on top of it,
if you didn't have a
really good education,
if you didn't work
really, really hard.
>> I did not grow up with
any kind of money, wealth.
I grew up in a
very middle-class,
working class background.
My parents did not have
ultra-enlightened or empowered
ideas about money.
>> Some of the things that were
passed along was the whole idea
of money doesn't grow on trees,
and that you really do have
to--
we were always looking
for ways to save money,
for ways to not waste,
for ways to be frugal.
And I think that's
how I ended up
in my 20s going to the
grocery store and not one
to put a twist tie
on the plastic bag.
Because when you
got to the scale,
that twist tie would
weigh another hundredth
of an ounce or something.
You'd have to pay
more money for it.
>> I found my mom's budget
from when we were growing up.
And on the budget, it started
with the money she made.
And at the very bottom,
it ended up at zero.
And she even counted
in the cost to send
stamps to send the bill.
And the stamps were $0.13.
And so that's how much money.
We had none basically left
at the end of each month.
>> Growing up with an
entrepreneurial East Indian
family based in business, I saw
that it was grounded in work
hard, work hard, keep working.
Do everything for the family.
Self-sacrifice, self-sacrifice.
One day way down the road,
you'll become something.
You'll make something
of yourself.
And it was always projected
one day down the road.
This hard work will pay off.
>> When I was a young girl
living in a family that was
very, very prosperous, I had
pretty much everything I could
want.
I didn't want for anything.
That's for sure.
And then later in life
when I was about 11,
my parents broke up.
And within a couple of
years of breaking up,
somehow all the money was gone.
>> I felt that I had some
kind of an impediment.
As a child, I didn't know.
And that led me to
doing some things
when I was in my early teens.
Got in trouble with the law.
Got in trouble in school.
Got involved in a small,
little street gang
where we did things
that were illegal.
And it was where I fit in.
I felt good with these kids.
And they were all
the other misfits.
>> And I ended up
failing in school.
I didn't have a group
of support people
to help me around with learning.
And then dropping out.
And I started--
I left home when I
was 13, 14 years old.
>> And all of it was based
around the illusion that I was
taught for 20 years that
you had to go to college.
You had to get a degree in
order to succeed in life.
And because I only went to grade
11, I had failed that rule.
And therefore, there was
no chance of success.
>> But I had a good degree
from a good university.
I worked my way up
to a good job that
was interesting
for a sexy company
that other people
wanted to work for.
And I was bored out of my mind.
I was absolutely
bored out of my mind.
I was just--
I didn't want to do
what I was doing.
[CLOCK ALARM]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There were times when I was
working on Wall Street when I
would go the entire winter
without seeing the sun.
So I would go to work
before the sun came up
or before the sun
was high enough
to go over the buildings.
I'd work all day.
And by the time I came
home, it was night.
So the entire time,
I never ever saw it.
So I'm in a cubicle.
I'm Indoors.
I'm not moving my
physical body at all.
And I'm doing something that
I really don't want to do.
And it's just that simple.
I don't want to do this.
And so that was my day.
And that was my day five days,
sometimes six days a week.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was in a situation in
my 20s when I was struggling
to find my way.
And all my friends had
started to manifest success.
They had jobs.
They were getting married.
They were buying houses
and getting promotions.
And I had none of those things.
And I was single.
I was living in
a tiny apartment.
And I couldn't quite
find my way in my career.
I wanted to try different
performing arts.
And I felt really
stuck and lost.
And it's a scary place to be.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, my name is Chloe Jamal.
I was-- oh, OK.
Thanks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Because I felt
depressed and lonely,
because I felt different
from everyone else.
I suppose I would
vacillate between seeing
something's wrong with
me and something's
wrong with this system.
>> You don't want to
ask why in school.
You don't want to ask
why in many churches.
You don't want to ask why.
Because you're-- asking
why means you're a rogue.
You're stepping outside
the prescribed path
that society as said this
is the path you walk on.
>> I thought you weren't
supposed to want money.
You weren't supposed
to care about money.
And what's weird is because
I wasn't paying attention
to money and because I
was trying not to have it,
I spent almost all my
time thinking about money,
because I didn't have it.
I was afraid my car
would break down.
Or I wouldn't be able to
eat or whatever it may be.
And I really was
desperate at times.
>> And I started searching
for this abundance code.
What is it for me?
And I realized that
I wanted it all.
Even though people said
you can't have it all,
you can't have a
great relationship,
you can't have great
health, you can't
have time freedom to enjoy
the pleasures of life,
just the pleasures
of life, and you
can't have a deep spiritual
life and be abundant,
I decided that I wanted
to be the exception.
>> And finally, I just
got so tired of that.
I thought, if a
person is not supposed
to be caring about money,
I'm thinking about it way,
way too much.
I want to master money.
I want to get to the place where
money is just not an issue.
Because I had these values, I
can do things for other people.
I can contribute
to other people.
And I won't have to just-- oh,
I have to keep so much for me,
because I don't have enough.
>> We live in fear and
scarcity about everything.
Fear rules us when
we're in scarcity.
And it's a place where
we feel like we're
in constant competition,
where we're in adversity,
where we have to hoard.
>> So every thought that you
have is motivated by fear,
which means it's going to
be greed, jealousy, envy,
all of these different things--
selfishness.
Because you're coming
from that survival brain.
You're coming from a brain
that's saying, it's me or them.
>> In the culture of more,
something happens where we move
from being to having.
Now, this shift
from being to having
is a very interesting one.
Because we tell ourselves that
if I have more, if I get more,
I'll be happy.
I'll be gorgeous.
I'll be kind.
I'll be compassionate.
You watch.
I'll just be amazing.
The problem is in the culture
of more, we want more.
And there's never
enough, ultimately.
We've never defined enough.
>> Well, any time a person
is not living authentically
according to what is truly
most important, and meaningful,
and value, and inspiring
in their lives,
the unfulfillment makes them
seek immediate gratification
to compensate.
>> Going to work on
Monday, getting to Friday,
like I used to do, being
really excited for Friday,
and then self-medicating again
till Monday, and then wash,
rinse, repeat.
>> For me, I ate, and
I watched movies on TV.
And that was what I used to do.
As soon as I got home,
I'd start eating junk food
and watching whatever
was on cable TV.
I would just check out.
Any chance I could to
check out, I was gone.
>> I think to get
through that time--
I look back now.
And I think, well, I
probably had some depression
a little bit going on.
And that's not a typical
life experience for me.
But I also think I
soothed myself by,
you're just numb, by
numbing myself and doing
that in a variety of ways that
I don't think are helpful.
>> And the whole time
I was doing this,
I was also gaining weight.
So over an 11-year period,
I gained over 200 pounds.
I went from about 180
pounds to 409 pounds.
>> It's critically important
for people to understand that
distractions are
controlling them.
And distractions are a really
handy way not to face life.
It's what many people do.
It's why during a difficult
period, entertainment thrives.
You see movie houses opening
up all over the place.
And even if you go back
to the Great Depression,
the one industry that thrived
through the Great Depression
was the entertainment industry.
Why?
Because people can
distract themselves.
And if I'm not looking
at the problems,
then maybe the
problems will go away.
And usually, they don't go
away until we handle them,
until we do
something about them.
And so it's critically
important that we
understand how damaging buying
into those distractions are.
It's the easy thing to do, but
it's not the wise thing to do.
>> So the things
that surround us,
the people that surround us,
the news or inputs that we get,
the kind of stuff we read--
what you take in really
can influence what belief.
Whether you're in
scarcity, whether you're
in fear, whether you're in
abundance, whether you're
in generosity, it's
really important, I think,
to be careful about that.
>> Every hour of time that I
waste is an hour I can never
get back.
With money, I can
always get more.
But with time-- when it's
gone, it's gone forever.
The moment you just confront
that and say it's gone forever
and it's never coming back,
I must make the most of it.
What could I be doing
with that hour right now?
You do stop watching the TV.
You do stop actually
procrastinating.
saying it's OK for this
to happen for another day.
And you do say, no, it's
going to change now.
>> Recognize, wow, I
got caught up in that.
I got caught up in that
relationship stuff.
I got caught up in that gossip.
I got caught up in
that reality TV show.
that rag magazine--
who's zooming who, who's having
sex with who, who's breaking up
with who, who's loving who.
Let go.
Relax importance.
Ooh, too much
importance on that.
How do I know?
Because I'm riled up.
Let go.
>> And this addictive behavior,
this hedonic treadmill trying
to find this instant
gratification and pleasure
makes people sometimes try
to be somebody they're not,
which is a vicious cycle.
>> When you play the game
by someone else's rules,
you're so off.
And you're sacrificing family.
You're sacrificing
relationships.
You're sacrificing your
relationship with yourself.
You're sacrificing
relationship with--
the natural world
is a big one for me.
Your community, with
your spiritual self.
So often when you get
stuck in those boxes,
it doesn't allow you to live
your biggest, fullest life.
>> We all have an
abundance of something.
Many people have an abundance
of things they don't want.
The goal is to discover the
path, the right combination,
so that you have an abundance
of things you do want.
>> Is the game really
working for you?
I mean, that's the thing.
I'd love to see people-- more
people step back and just
observe, say, is this
really working for me?
Do I have the
relationships I want?
Do I have the physical
body that I want?
Do I have the life
I really want?
>> And I see it happening a lot,
people stepping away from that
sheep-walking space and
saying, wait a minute.
This isn't working, not
for me, not for my family,
not for my community, not for
anybody as far as I can tell.
>> And you have to come to a
point where you say enough is
enough.
And I am enough.
I'm not doing this anymore.
I'm not playing this game.
It's a stupid game, and
I don't like the rules.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think we all have
our story of lack.
We're all searching for
the thing that's missing.
We're pursuing happiness.
We're looking for love.
We're chasing success.
We're always after something.
And the search, although it's
well-intentioned in many ways,
is the problem.
The search shows us that we
have forgotten something,
that we're lost in some way.
>> I had kind of a
life-changing experience.
Back in 2001, I was almost
on one of the planes that
was hijacked in 9/11--
United Airlines Flight 93.
And I was supposed
to be on that flight,
and I wasn't by just
a fluke of fate.
And I said here I
am killing myself.
And the universe just
gave me a second chance.
And I decided that
I was going to stop
living for the someday, the
someday when I had enough money
to retire, and I could start
taking care of my health,
and enjoying my life.
And I figured I was
on borrowed time.
And I decided I was going to
start living my life right now.
>> 9/11 happened, which I
watched from my bedroom window.
I live in Lower Manhattan.
And that was September 11.
And two days later
on September 13,
my mother was diagnosed
with pancreatic cancer.
So my internal world of
my family was crumbling
and outside my window,
Ground Zero was smoking.
And suddenly-- and the
question a lot of us
asked that day is,
how can I help?
How can I contribute?
>> I had a pretty major
breakthrough when I was 19
years old.
And I knew that I was
on the wrong path,
on the wrong train heading
towards either jail
or the morgue.
I was very, very fortunate
that my brother, who
was a tennis
professional at the time,
had a very successful
client of his.
His name was Alan Brown.
And he seemed like a
gentleman that wasn't just
financially affluent, but he
seemed like a gentleman that
had his whole life together.
And my brother had arranged for
a meeting between Alan and I.
And he proceeded to ask me
a bunch of questions about,
why did I think that I
was getting into trouble?
What did I think was going
to happen with my life?
He asked me, what were my goals?
What were my dreams?
And at 19 years old, I
had no goals, no dreams.
I had no answers as to why
I was getting into trouble.
And at the time, I was making
more money doing illegal things
than I was in my job.
But I had to have
a job as a front
so that my parents would think
that the money that I had
was coming from
legitimate means.
And so he asked me.
Why did I think I was
doing these things?
And I said, I don't know.
I just want to make some money.
He says, well, aren't
you aware that you
can make some money legally?
Aren't you aware that you
can think differently?
Aren't you aware that
you could upgrade
your knowledge and your skills?
Aren't you aware that
you can become more?
And becoming more, you
build your confidence
and your certainty.
And then you can have
more, which would then
allow you to give more.
>> And then 2008 rolled around.
And my little boy was three.
I was the sole
breadwinner in my family.
My husband is a
stay-at-home dad.
And the financial environment
melted down globally.
And my company was
not viable anymore.
The company I worked
for was not viable.
And they went
through three rounds
of layoffs, four
rounds of layoffs,
five rounds of layoffs.
And I knew I was going
to be on the block.
There was no way that I was
going to be able to stay there.
And I decided I
would rather jump
than get pushed, that it would
be more empowering for me
to do it.
Even though I was giving up
certain things with severance
and health insurance, it
would be a wiser choice
for me to go ahead
and make the leap.
>> I know what it's like
to live under a bridge,
and in a park bench, and in a
bathroom, in an abandoned car.
And I know what it's
like to watch people
get killed in front of you.
And I've seen a lot of
things living on the streets.
Because I remember I
was laying face down
in a tent very deathly sick
and had just been unconscious
for three and a half days,
laying face down and thinking
when I came out of the
kind of unconscious state,
if I make it
through this ordeal,
I just want to do something.
I want to make a difference.
I want to be somebody.
So that was exactly what
I needed at the time
to do what I'm doing today.
>> So the moment when everything
changed for me was I had left
the corporate world.
It was a failure.
But I was-- I ran away from
it, but I didn't have anything
to run to.
I didn't know where I was going.
I just couldn't
handle it anymore.
I was actually home, taking
care of my two little babies
at the time.
They're grown now.
But they were two little babies.
And my wife, Mary-- she was
out working and supporting
the family.
And one day she drove up
in the middle of the day.
And I was like, what's going on?
She drives up.
And then she walks in the house.
And she was just in tears.
She was in tears
about her having
to live within that
corporate world,
her having to get up in
the dark, and go to work,
and come home in the dark and
not be able to see her kids,
and just how that
corporate world was just
beating her down,
and driving her down,
and how she just wanted
to be with her kids.
And it was that she
just begged of me.
You got to-- we got
to make a change.
You need to bring in some money.
We need to support our
family in a different way.
This is just not working.
And it was just crushing
to see her in that state,
crushing to feel
her pain, crushing
to think that I couldn't support
the family, that I was putting
her through that pain.
It was just a horrible,
horrible time.
Horrible.
And it didn't end, because
that was just the start of it.
But now, I knew I
had to move forward.
I had to do something.
But I had absolutely no
idea what it would be.
[MUSIC - WES CARR, "ANTHEM"]
>> I come alive.
Like a son again, I will rise.
In this moment, I'm like fire.
I will feed on love.
I am burning up for you.
I am tearing up right now.
Oh, can anybody
hear me out there?
Is anyone alive out there?
This is the anthem
for the lost soul.
This is a time that
will never grow old.
This is the sound of the stereo.
This is the anthem for the lost.
Tell me what you want.
We are gods.
We are women and men.
We are stars.
We deown men now, lose or win.
We are the universe
in this moment.
Don't forget the moment.
We are one.
Oh, can anybody
hear me out there?
Is anyone alive out there?
This is the anthem
for the lost soul.